# New technology in Europe

Mostly came from Asia. The thechnology evolved and made its way over to Europe.

Here are some new inventions: 

Wind Charts - European mariners began to understand the ocean current caused by   trade winds  

Astronomical Chart - Mapping stars was not a new concept but these new charts and maps have been so descriptive and informative they were extremely helpful to navigate the seas

#### New ship designs
Caravel - 15th century portuguese ship used to explore the West coast of Africa. Lateen sail allowed it to sail into the wind. Some examples include Columbus’ Nina and the Pinta

Carrack - 15th century ocean going caravels with 3-4 masts. Used to trade along African Coast Asia, and America. Most famous example is Columbus Santa Maria

Galleon - More advanced form of the Carrack. Some held up to 400 cannons per boat. It was a combination of an economic and military boat

Fluyt -  16th Century Dutch Cargo ship that could carry 2x the cargo for ½ the price with ½ the crew. In 1670 fluyts carried ½ of all european Sea Trade

# State sponsored exploration
goverments would sponsor explorers to find new routes into asia. The tax rates were vary high the normal way.

European government sponsored maritime schools and voyages. 

Leaders of the Pack were Portuguese and Spanish

Portugal creates a school for oceanic navigation and astronomical observatory 

Train students in mapmaking, science and maritime technology 

Goal to go around the Souther tip to Africa

**The goverment mainly sponsered exploration because of 
 * Gold
	 * Mercantilism - an economic system of trade that spanned from the 16th century to the 18th century and was based on the idea that a nation’s wealth and power were best served by increasing exports and trade
 * God
	 * Most Europeans were christians and felt it was their duty to cconvert people from other lands
 * Glory
	 * Controlling a large area shows the Empires glory. There was fierce competition between  Europeans to claim more land.


#### Spain
The Reconquista Spanish Cathlic Kings who focused on getting all muslims and jew from spain. Competition with Portugal led the goverment to sponsor exploration.

Spain and portugal were close to war so they both signed the Treaty of Tordesillas.

# Protestant Reformation
Corruption in the church with indulgences. Using money to build things like Vatican and Sistine Chapel.

Many of the people that converted had to flee to avoid persucution. The pilgrims were one of them.