### Close to WW2 End

1944 - Yalta Conference
	FDR wanted free and fair elections after the War

However Stalin did not give any guarantees in the countries Russia was now occupying. Stalin wanted a buffer between him and the other European Countries

### Potsdam Conference 
FDR died, and new president Truman met with Stalin and also wanted free elections in Europe.

Stalin ignored truman and occupied European countries. Truman did not want to risk another war

### United States
was fortunate that most WW2 fighting did not occur in the US. Infrastructure was untouched by war, as european nations were trying to rebuild

### Soviet Union
The russians lost many people and lots of infrastructure was destroyed. Population was large and even though they lost they still had lots of population to spare. Since stalin tried to industrialize their nation recovered quickly

## Start of Cold War
After the US dropped Nuclear Bomb, Stalin was very upset. He was scared of its power and he was also worried that the US never told him they had the bomb.

This would begin the cold war.

	A Cold War is a state of hostility between two countries which does not result in open warfare

### Setting the Stage Decolonization
Colonial soldiers fought in WWI and believed that their sacrifice would allow them to gain independence 

Woodrow Wilson believed that these countries needed to ***self determine*** their own future. 

As the world war ended and these imperial nations were out of cash they could not keep hold or maintain the colonies anymore. The United States and Soviet Union would call for these countries to Self Determine 
