### How Did the Cold War End
There are many complex reasons. Here are 3 of them outlined in AP
- Military Industrial Technology of the United States 
- Failed Soviet invasion of Afghanistan 
- Public discontent and economic weakness in the Soviet Union

### Military Industrial Technology of the United States
Ronald Reagan and the SDI
	Strategic defense initiative 
- President Reagan wanted to send a satellite defense system into space that will detect nuclear missiles being launched at the United state and would shoot them down with laser
- This became known as Star Wars
- Turns out this technology was way too expensive and not possible yet
- The Soviet Union did not know this and were extremely scared because of the announcement of the plan and initial steps the United States took to start this

### Afghanistan
In 1978 a coup happened in Afghanistan they were supported by the Soviet Union. New comunist government was very unpopular. Within year the president was murdered. The new leader ws anti soviet union. Later that year Soviet Union would invade Afghanistan and assassinate the new president.

Soviets became rules of Afghanistan again, but the locals did not like it and they kept fighting the Soviets. After 10 years of fighting, the Soviets would leave.

### Public Discontent and Economic Weakness
The Soviet Economy had been very bad since the 1960s. Most Eastern European countries were becoming very discontent with the Soviet Union. In 1985 a new Russian leader called Mikhail Gorbachev introduced two programs called Perestroika and Glasnost, which allowed some elements of capitalism to start.

- Perestroika- which allowed for some elements of free enterprise in the soviet union 
- Glasnost which allowed for the opening of the political process and granting of more freedoms 

These two policies would create more freedom in Soviet Controlled countries 

In December of 1991 the Soviet Union would fall and the cold war was officially over  
