*1900 - present*

Innovations of the industrial revolution continued development in the 20th and 21st centuries, improving transportation and communication.

**Karl Benz** invented internal combustion engine that led to creation of automobiles and airline industries

Vehicles became more sophisticated, giving rise to national and international airports, major urban train stations, and national highway systems

Travel around the world became easier faster cheaper

Communication also advanced, using telephones, radio, and television. Satellites orbiting Earth allowed near instantaneous global sharing of info

People are finally changing old points of view in physics and science

## Green Revolution
In 1900s, global population grew rapidly, and food supplies struggled to keep up. Scientist *Norman Borlaug* began the Green Revolution, applying scientific reaserch to expand output to meet growing demand. 

The green revolution refers to the wave of technological development that started in the 1940s to increase crop production in order to help developing countries face their growing populations needs.

Covers two cataogries, first is breeding new plants, and other is modern agricultural techniques, like new chemicals, and mechanization.

Despite its success, it generated lots of problems, and did not end world hunger. It wasnt successful because some smaller farmers couldnt afford newer equipment, and some of the pesticides caused enviromental problems

## Bacterial revolution
saved millions of lives, and benefitted urban areas greatly. Vaccine for polio eradicated disease in wealtheir countries. Small pox also was eradicated

## Energy technology
Industrial countries dependant on non renewable energy sources. 50% of energy comes from oil, most of it comes from Middle East. Britain opened first nuclear power station(using science learned from atomic bombs during WW2)

## Global economics

After great depression, governments turn back to Free Market, and multinational brands emerged.

Offshoring — Jobs being put in different countries to reduce costs

Knowledge based economy is an economic system where production of goods and services are based principally on knowledge-intensive activities that contribute to advancement in technical and scientific innovation.